docs(topics): add Lightning Network topic page (#803)
OpenSats/website: data/topics/lightning.mdx

---
title: 'Lightning Network'
summary: 'A peer-to-peer network of payment channels built on Bitcoin where bilateral 2-of-2 multisig channels let participants transact off-chain, with only channel opens and closes settling on the base layer.'
ogSummary: 'A Bitcoin payment network where off-chain channels route payments without touching the base layer for each transaction.'
category: 'Lightning'
aliases: ['Lightning', 'LN']
---

> Proposed by Joseph Poon and Thaddeus Dryja in a [2016 paper](https://lightning.network/lightning-network-paper.pdf), Lightning Network is a second-layer payment network for Bitcoin. Two peers lock bitcoin into a 2-of-2 multisig output on-chain and update the balance between them by exchanging signed commitment transactions off-chain. Payments hop across the network and usually settle in milliseconds to seconds. Under normal operation, Bitcoin only sees the funding transaction and the final close, though force closes, penalty transactions, and splices can also touch the chain. Safe deployment depended on [SegWit](/topics/segwit), which activated in August 2017 and fixed the transaction malleability problem that had made pre-signed channel contracts unsafe. First mainnet deployments followed in early 2018.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Proposed by Joseph Poon and Thaddeus Dryja in a [2016 paper](https://lightning.network/lightning-network-paper.pdf), Lightning Network is a second-layer payment network for Bitcoin. Two peers open a channel by locking bitcoin into a 2-of-2 multisig output on-chain and update the channel balance by exchanging signed commitment transactions off-chain. Payments are routed across the network and usually settle in milliseconds to seconds. Bitcoin only sees the funding transaction and the final channel close, though force closes, penalty transactions, and splices can also touch the chain. Safe deployment depended on [SegWit](/topics/segwit), which activated in August 2017 and fixed the transaction malleability problem that had made pre-signed channel contracts unsafe. First mainnet deployments followed in early 2018.
```

> The protocol is defined by the BOLT documents, short for Basis of Lightning Technology, at [github.com/lightning/bolts](https://github.com/lightning/bolts). The main node implementations are [LND](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd), [Core Lightning](https://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning), and [Eclair](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair). [LDK](/topics/ldk) takes a different approach: it is a library for embedding Lightning into other applications rather than a standalone daemon. Each channel requires pre-funded on-chain capital, and inbound liquidity must be actively managed. A node must also stay online, or use a watchtower, because a dishonest partner can try to close the channel using a revoked commitment transaction. Hence the honest party has a limited window to catch the breach, claim a penalty, or lose the balance owed to them in that channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The protocol is defined by the [BOLT](https://github.com/lightning/bolts) documents, short for Basis of Lightning Technology. The main node implementations are [LND](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd), [Core Lightning](https://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning), and [Eclair](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair). [LDK](/topics/ldk) takes a different approach: it is a library for embedding Lightning into other applications rather than a standalone daemon. Each channel requires pre-funded on-chain capital, and inbound liquidity must be actively managed. A node must also stay online, or use a watchtower, because a dishonest partner can try to close the channel using a revoked commitment transaction. Hence the honest party has a limited window to catch the breach, claim a penalty, or lose the balance owed to them in that channel.
```

> Related topic pages cover routing with [HTLCs](/topics/htlc), payment requests with [BOLT 11](/topics/bolt11) invoices and [BOLT 12](/topics/bolt12) offers, and channel management with [channel splicing](/topics/channel-splicing). The broader topic set also includes blinded paths, gossip, onion routing, and Lightning Address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Related topic pages cover routing with [HTLCs](/topics/htlc), payment requests with [BOLT 11](/topics/bolt11) invoices and [BOLT 12](/topics/bolt12) offers, and channel management with [channel splicing](/topics/channel-splicing). The broader topic set also includes [blinded paths](/topics/blinded-paths), [gossip](/topics/gossip), [onion routing](/topics/onion-routing), and [Lightning Address](/topics/lightning-address).
```

## References

- [The Bitcoin Lightning Network: Scalable Off-Chain Instant Payments (Poon & Dryja, 2016)](https://lightning.network/lightning-network-paper.pdf)
- [lightning.network](https://lightning.network/)
- [lightning/bolts](https://github.com/lightning/bolts)
- [Bitcoin Optech: Payment channels](https://bitcoinops.org/en/topics/payment-channels/)

> - [Bitcoin Optech: Lightning Network](https://bitcoinops.org/en/topics/lightning-network/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Links do not exist.
